# I. This is located by the Crimp

When using the hand shuffle make an extra under cut of about half the deck, and when throwing the under packet on top shift the right hand slightly inwards and form an in-jog, the left little finger helping to hold the location between the two packets. Then turn the left hand slightly downwards, bringing the right hand over on top of the deck, and seize the ends between thumb and second and third fingers, apparently to square up. As the right thumb comes against the inner end it pulls up the in-jog slightly, forming a break. (See Fig. 17.) Then with the fingers of left hand crimp, or squeeze the under packet against palm of hand so as to leave the under packet slightly concave. (See Fig. 18.) The right hand effectively conceals this action of the left. Lay the deck down perfectly square to be cut. The ally makes the cut at the ends with one hand, and locates the crimp by touch. There is little or no difficulty in finding the crimp. It is the most probable place the cut would be made, even if left to chance, and many an unsophisticated player has unconsciously cut into a crimp and aided in his own undoing. If the deck is placer before an innocent player so that his hand naturally seizes the ends, the chances are in favor of his cutting to the opening. (See Fig. 19.) A professional will calculate on this probability when his right-hand neighbor is not an ally. The main objection to the crimp is that the bent cards may be noticed. The dealer immediately crimps in the opposite direction when squaring up after the cut.

The same result can be achieved by putting in a convex crimp in the under portion. It is led up to in the same manner, and the first finger of the left hand aids in forming the crimp by being curled up and pressed against the under packet to bend it upwards. In this case the ally cuts at the sides, and locates the crimp accurately by pressing the second or third finger tip on the top near the outside edge. This tilts the upper packet a little, and enables the thumb to find the crimp without an instant's hesitation. (See Fig. 20.)

