# Bottom Palm. First Method

Seize the deck with the right hand on top, between the first joints of the second and third fingers at one end, and the thumb at the other end; the fingers close together and the third finger and thumb close to each corner so as to expose as much of the deck as possible. Bring up the left hand and seize the deck from beneath at the right thumb end, between the first and second fingers, and the palm just under the second joint of the thumb, the thumb lying straight across the top close to the end. If the position is secured correctly the tips of the left thumb and second finger touch the right thumb, as all three are at the same corner of the deck and almost the whole of the deck is exposed. To palm, grip the bottom cards at the side of corner with the tip of the left second finger, squeezing them in against the palm under the left thumb, and pull down over end of right thumb about quarter of an inch. \(See Fig. 39.\) This will cause the outer-end corner of the under cards to project a little at the side, under the right third finger. Catch the projecting corner the right little fingertip, pressing the cards firmly against palm under the left thumb, and draw them in toward right thumb,—at the same time straightening out the left fingers—until the under cards lie fairly along the left palm. \(See Fig. 40.\) Slightly close left hand with the palmed cards and turn partly over and inward as the right hand lays the deck on the table for the cut.

The entire action of this palm is extremely rapid, simple, easy and imperceptible. The only difficulty is in establishing the proper position of the left hand. To get this absolutely exact, palm half a dozen cards in the left hand in the most favorable position for holding and concealing. Then with one finger of the right hand press against the little finger corner of the palmed cards, and—using the diagonal corner as a pivot—swing them out and over the first finger until the left second finger tip can be brought against the corner, and the left thumb lie across the end. Now, if the left thumb is raised and the balance of the deck is placed on top, the desired position is obtained.

After a shuffle, the position is taken quite naturally in squaring up by merely pushing the deck out of the left palm until the left thumb lies along the top close to the end.

This palm may be made without the aid of the right little finger. The positions of the hands are taken exactly as before, then the second left finger is dropped sufficiently to allow the little finger to take its place. The little finger then grips the corner and pulls the cards back to the left wrist until thew lie along the left fingers as before.

