# Bottom Palm. Second Method

Seize the deck with the right hand on top, by the middle of the ends between the thumb and first joints of second and third fingers, first finger curled up on top. Bring the left hand up against the bottom, the left second and third finger tips resting idly on the right second and third fingers; the left little finger at first joint against the edge of the bottom cards at the same end, the left first finger curled up against bottom and the left thumb resting against the side. To palm, grip the corner of the under cards with the left little finger at first joints. \(See Fig. 41.\) Then swing finger end of upper portion of deck out against left thumb, keeping right thumb stationary as a pivot, until the finger ends of the two packets are just past each other, straightening out the left first finger at the same time. \(See Fig. 42.\) Then release thumb end of lower packet, letting it down into left palm, or press thumb end of both packets into left palm, releasing under packet, and slide deck out of left hand and drop it on the table to be cut, turning over left hand with the palmed cards at the same moment.

The whole process is as quick as a flash, and quite imperceptible. The drawback is the slightly unnatural action of bringing the left fingers to the end of the deck. They should be kept at the side in squaring up after the shuffle, then at the last instant slipped to the end, and without a moment's hesitation the palm is made.

To replace the bottom palm, pick up the deck by the ends with the right hand, and as it is placed in the left slide the left second finger from the end of the palmed cards to the side, curl the left first finger up underneath \(See Fig. 43\), and as the palmed cards are slipped into position bring the left thumb against one side and the left second finger to the other, which materially aid in the rotary movement of the under packet.

It is more difficult to replace than to palm, but the action is not so liable to attract attention, as, if the palm is not suspected, any awkwardness at replacing may be covered by squaring up the cut. But replacing may be performed just as perfectly as palming, and to become proficient in either requires some practice. When the positions and process are thoroughly understood the main difficulties are overcome.

