# Top Palm. First Method

Hold the deck in the left hand so that the first joints of the second and third fingers will be against the middle of one side, the thumb against middle of opposite side, the first joint of little finger against middle of end and first finger curled up against bottom. Bring the right hand over top of deck, the third, second and little fingers close together, first joint of the little finger being against the end corner, the first finger curled up on top and the tip of thumb resting idly at end, above left little finger. To palm, press the right little finger, exactly at the first joint, firmly against the top cards, pull them up about half an inch at corner, freeing them from the left second and third fingers, keeping the three right fingers \(little, second and third\) perfectly straight. The cards to be palmed are now held firmly between the right little finger, and the left little finger. \( See Fig. 36.\) Straighten out right first finger, swing left little finger with the cards to be palmed free of the end of the deck, press the cards into the right palm with the end of the left third finger. \(See Fig. 37.\) Draw the deck out about half way from under the right hand, and release the left hand entirely. \(See Fig. 38.\) Then the right drops the deck on the table to be cut. After the hands are in the first position the whole process does not occupy half a second.

The deck should be kept in view as much as possible, and the right first finger is curled up on top for that purpose until the instant the palm is performed. The action of drawing the deck into view when the cards are palmed is made a part of the whole movement.

