# Sixth Method

Now we introduce another "homemade" article, and consequently unknown up to the present. We think it is very pretty.

Hold the deck in the left hand by the ends, between the tips of the thumb and second and third fingers, the first finger resting against the side and the little fingertip against the bottom, close to the corner, the face of the deck to the company and the finger end down. Bring the right hand forward so the the little-fingertips meet at the corner of deck, the palm partly facing the company and showing the hand empty, the wrists being about siw inches apart. Now, with the left little fingertip push the corner of the lower card slightly over the side, and clip it with the right little fingertip, so that it is firmly held between the two tips (see Fig. 87), and press it down against the left third finger, turning the right hand over and moving the upper end of the deck to the left at the same time. This action will cause the lower card to swing out at the upper end, and it is caught and palmed by the right hand as the hand turns over. The left little finger is extended as the turn is made, pressing the card firmly agains the right fingers. (See Fig. 88.) Now the right hand immediately seizes the deck close to the lower end, and the left hand releasing it, is shown empty. Then the left hand again seizes the deck, but this time by the sides, with the little fingers against the lower end. The right hand is now released and passed rapidly downward over the deck, leaving the palmed card on top, and the right hand is shown empty. The left little finger at the end aids the replacing by catching the palmed card as the right hand is drawn down.

Of course, the performer makes the movements of passing the deck from hand to hand and showing the hands empty, ostensibly to prove that no palming takes place. The act of palming, if cleverly performed is absolutely undetectable; the right hand turning over just in time and sufficiently to cover the card coming out, but not obstructing the continued view of the face of the deck. The actual palm can be made as rapidly as desired and without a sound. Our readers should cultivate this "transformation," though it may take some practice to acquired perfectly.

