# III. To Retain the Top Stock

The next two methods of blind cuts are among the most subtle and indetectible manoeuvers in card handling. The design and use of the break originated with us, and by its aid blind run cuts can be alternated with the blind riffle, until the most critical skeptic will admit that any prearrangement or knowledge of the cards must be hopelessly lost in bewildering confusion.

Seize the deck with both hands, at sides, near the ends, between the thumbs and second fingers; raise it a little from the table and draw off the top stock with the thumb and second finger of the left hand, dropping the left-hand packet on the table, and bring the right-hand packet down on top of it, but retain firm hold with the right hand, and form the break with the right thumb while squaring up the deck. \(See Fig. 12.\) The left thumb helps to form the break, by holding the space between the two packets while the right thumb is getting the new hold on the whole deck. Then raise the whole deck again with the right hand, and with the left, draw off the upper portion in small packets between the thumb and second finger until the break is reached, dropping the small packets on the table, one on the other \(see Fig. 13\); and then throw the balance on top with the right hand. This leaves the top stock intact.

Properly performed, it is impossible to detect the ruse. The break is formed on the inside, and at one end only, and is effectually concealed at the end by the right-hand fingers. To see the break the observer would have to be stationed directly behind the operator. The performer himself cannot see the break, unless his hands are well advanced on the table. When drawing off the small packets, the break is found by the left thumb solely by the sense of touch. The action should not be hurried, and this method of cutting is quite commonly used by many players for the very opposite purpose.

