# Top And Bottom Dealing With One Hand

THIS is a very pretty method of varying the deal, and carries certain advantages with it. The deck is held in exactly the same manner as described for bottom dealing. The single-handed top deal is made by pushing over the top card with the thumb in the usual manner, and then with a swing of the hand towards the player, the card is released by the thumb and slides off the deck over the table in the direction indicated. The single-handed bottom deal is made by first pushing over the top card as usual, then instead of pushing out the bottom card, as in the two-handed deal, it is sprung back a little by the third finger tip, and then suddenly sprung forward and out as the hand is swung in the direction of the player.

This bottom deal is really more deceptive than where the two hands are employed, as it appears so open, and the action is completely hidden by the natural swing of the hand necessarily made towards the player, to cause the card to slide in the proper direction. The action of the wrist is a little varied as the cards are dealt to the left, opposite or to the right; and the impetus and direction given to each card must be nicely calculated to make the deal appear graceful. Unless the cards fall pretty fairly before each player, it would seem very awkward indeed. The swing, and the wrist action, for dealing the top and bottom cards, are just about the same.

Single and double handed top and bottom card dealing can be nicely combined, and has an advantage over the exclusive use of the one or the other. If the bottom cards are intended for, say, the third player from the dealer, he can deal the first two top cards single-handed, and then bring up the right hand and continue the rest of the round double-handed, giving the third player the bottom card as the hands are first brought together. Each round should be made in the same uniform manner. The advantage in this procedure is, that when the bottom card is wanted the dealer's hands are separated possibly eight or ten inches, and the movement required to bring them together covers up and gives time for the action of the left hand in getting the top and bottom cards in position. The finished expert can deal the bottom cards at will, under any circumstances, without a possibility of detection; but it is our desire to show the most favorable conditions under which the ruse can be employed. The single and double-handed deal is quite frequently used by players who know absolutely nothing about advantages. It looks pretty, the movements are natural, and the change of pace causes no suspicion.

When dealing Stud Poker, or turning a trump, the average player takes off the cards that are to be faced, by inverting the right hand, and seizing them with the fingers on top and thumb under, thereby turning the cards before they completely leave the left hand. This must not be attempted if the bottom card is to be dealt or turned trump. The inverted position of the hand makes it more difficult to get the bottom card out noiselessly. The cards should be taken in the usual manner by the right hand, and turned the instant they are quite free of the deck.
