# 1. Two-Card Stock

THE two desired cards are placed on top, under-cut about half the deck, in-jog top card, run two less than twice the number of players, out-jog and shuffle off. Under-cut to out-jog, forming break at in-jog; run one less than number of players, throw to break, run number of players, in-jog and shuffle off. Undercut to in-jog and throw on top. This action places the two desired cards so that they will fall to the dealer in the first two rounds.

The reader who has mastered the blind shuffles should find it a very simple matter to perform this stock. His knowledge of the terms must be clear, and he must have the slight skill necessary to make the run, jog, break, and throw, as required in the blind shuffles. If a perfect understanding of this simple stock is obtained it will make the whole subject easy of comprehension. We will describe the action at length.

Assuming that it is a five-handed poker game. Two kings, the desired cards, which are placed on top. The first action is to "under-cut about half the deck," then "in-jog top card;" that is, to push one of the kings slightly over the little finger end of the left-hand packet with the left thumb. It is done the instant the under-cut is made, and just before the right hand makes the downward motion to shuffle. "Run two less than twice the number of players," which would be eight; "out-jog," that is, run the next card out over the left first finger by shifting the right hand slightly outward, "and shuffle off," which means to shuffle the balance of the right hand packet into the left hand without design. The left little and first fingers now hold the in and out-jogs. (See Fig. 33.)

The next operation is, "Under-cut to out-jog, forming break at in-jog." The right hand fingers easily find the out-jog, the right thumb presses up a little on the in-jog card, and forms and holds a space, as the under packet is drawn out. (See Fig. 34.) "Run one less than number of players," four, "throw to break," that is, pass the rest of the cards above the break in one packet into the left hand, which is done by lessening the right thumb pressure somewhat and slightly accelerating the downward motion. (See Fig. 35.)

"Run number of players," five, "in-jog and shuffle off." The in-jog is made in this instance by shifting the right hand inward so that the card drawn off by the left thumb will fall slightly over the little finger. Then "under-cut to in-jog, and throw on top" will be understood.

The only action in any of the formulas for this method of stocking that will be found at all difficult is that of jogging the top card. It must be done rapidly and just at the moment the right hand is descending to shuffle.
