# Erdnase System of Stock Shuffling

The common method of stocking which has just been explained is very simple and easy to understand but extremely difficult to execute perfectly. The principal objections are that drawing from the bottom is an unnatural movement, that is requires much skill to accomplish the feat gracefully, and a great deal of practice to acquire the skill, and that this difficult and unnatural movement has to be executed for every card that is put in the stock, thereby increasing the chances of attracting attention when the stock is large. The new method about to be described is infinitely easier of execution, and the movements are so natural and regular that a very indifferent performer can defy the closest scrutiny. The cards may be shuffled with the utmost rapidity, or worked in quite slowly, without fear of exposing the action. The time required is not greater that usually taken in an ordinary shuffle, and the calculations are simple.

The principal aids in the new method are the jogs and the break, and they are used to hold and separate and locate solely by the sense of touch, the various disvisions created during the shuffle. The entire stock is run up independent of sight, and, in fact, the dealer can no more follow the action with his eyes than can those who are more interested in scrutinizing his work. We will give as a first illustration the action required for stocking two cards in any game that is dealt one card at a time to each player. The position given for shuffling must be maintained.

