# Mode of Holding the Hand

THE professional player, ever conscious of the necessity of uniformity, will always hold his hand in the same manner; and as he often finds it convenient to have more than his share of the cards, the position must be one which will always disguise that possibility. The best for all purposes is as follows:

Hold the cards in the left hand, the end fitting into the third joints of the first, second and third fingers, the lower corner resting on the little finger close to the third joint, and the little finger curled in so that the cards rest on the first joint also. The left thumb rests on the upper side, and the first, second and third fingers are curled in so that their tips rest against the back.

To read the cards, bring the right hand up, the third finger against the under side, the little finger against the end, the first and second fingers curled up on back, and the thumb on top. (See Fig. 57.) Then, with a sliding downward movement of the left thumb crimp or convex the cards sufficiently to read the index on each; or, open the edges slightly with the right thumb by springing the cards one at a time against the left thumb, which is pressed on top to keep them open. This exact position is very important for several reasons, principally because it effectually conceals the number held, and it enables the player to "skin" his hand and palm off the extra cards without fuss or unusual movements. In general appearance the hold is the same as adopted by very many players for the excellent purpose of preventing bystanders from getting a glimpse.
