# 1. Single Handed Shift

THIS is known to conjurers as the "Charlier Pass," and we presume was invented by the famous magician of that name.

Hold the deck in the left hand face down, between the thumb tip at one side and first joints of second and third fingers at opposite side, first joint of little finger at end, and first finger extended at bottom. To make the shift release the lower portion of the deck with the thumb, letting it fall into the palm (see Fig. 65), then push up the finger side of the fallen portion, with the first fingertip, until it reaches the thumb which is still supporting the upper portion. Now extend the second and third fingers slightly so that the thumb side of the upper portion will pass the upturned side of the lower portion (see Fig. 66), then straighten out the first finger allowing the upper portion to drop down into the palm and the lower portion on top of it.

The little finger held at the middle of the end is of great assistance in this shift, giving better control of both portions, and enabling the performer to hold the deck much nearer a vertical position. The shift is variably made with a slight swing, or up and down motion of the hand. It can be executed very rapidly, and is the favorite one handed shift with most experts. It is usually employed to receive and bring a selected card to the top. As the performer extends the deck to have the selected card returned, he raises the upper portion with the tip of the thumb, and the selected card is naturally placed in the opening. In this position the shift is half made, the condition being the same as when the first movement of dropping the lower portion into the palm takes place. The performer now with an up or down motion, or swing towards the person, tilts up the lower portion with the first finger and the shift is made, bringing the selected card to the top to be disposed of as desired.
