# The Open Shift

This is another outcome of our constant but ever failing efforts to devise a perfect shift, and incidentally one that is not readily anticipated by the manner of holding the deck. The particular feature of this method is the open position in which the cards are held, the entire deck being exposed to view.

Hold the deck in the left hand, the first joint of the thumb at one side, first joints of second, third, and little fingers at opposite side, the little finger holding a break between the two packets near the corner, and the little and third fingers being separated about one inch. The first finger is curled up against the bottom. Bring the right hand over, and seize the ends of deck close to right side corners, with the second finger and thumb tips, the thumb seizing only the lower packet below the break, the first finger curled up on top. (See Fig. 69.) The left third and little fingers take no part in the action and are held idly out of the way.

To make the shift, curl the right first finger back over the side of the deck, between the left little and third fingers, until the root of the finger nail rests against the edge of the top card. Now press the upper packet against the left thumb and downwards by straightening out the right first finger, at the same time drawing the lower packet to the right and upwards with the right thumb and second finger (See Fig. 70), and as the sides clear each other tilt the left side of the lower or right hand packet up on top. The upper packet should not fall into the left hand. It must be caught by the curled up first finger and first joints of the other left fingers, as it clears the side of the under packet. The left thumb never leaves its position against the side of the upper packet, and the tip should be held sufficiently above it to receive the lower packet as it is brought on top. The left little finger is not inserted between the two packets, but merely holds the break.

The shift can be made like a flash, and with the cards in perfect order. When executed perfectly, the only sound is the slipping of one packet over the other. There is no snap or crack, and it is in every way worthy of the practice necessary to acquire it. With the face of the deck turned upward it produces a "transformation" that ranks with the best of them.

The same shift may be made with the deck held flat in the palm, the left thumb lying idly across the top, and the first finger at the side with the others, but we much prefer the former position though it is a great deal more difficult. The latter position is an excellent one when it is necessary to make a shift that is apparently a simple cut, in which event the right hand does not tilt its packet on top. The hands immediately separate and the under packet is placed on top when desired.
