# IV. To Retain the Bottom Stock

Seize deck at sides, near the ends between the thumb and second finger of each hand, raise a little from the table and draw out the bottom stock with the thumb and finger of the right hand and let the left-hand packet fall on the table. Bring the right-hand packet down on top, retaining the hold until the break is formed by the left thumb, which is held at the edge of the under packet in readiness. Square up the deck and raise it again from the table with both hands; draw off top packet to the break with the left hand and drop it on the table. Then continue the left-hand action, drawing off small packets, dropping them one on the other, and throw the last packet on top with the right hand. This leaves the bottom stock intact. The action is much the same as the preceding blind, the difference being in the position of the break.

It is very important to adopt the proper positions for the fingers in these cuts. The deck should be as much exposed as possible, and the open manner of the whole process makes the blind so much more effective. The cards are handled solely by the second fingers and thumbs. The third fingers are curled up against the ends of the deck and assist in squaring up, and keeping the cards even. The first fingers are curled up on top so as to be out of the way and not obstruct the view.

To form the break, keep the left hand in the position it occupies as it drops the packet on the table, the finger and thumb held open apparently to seize the deck again when the right-hand packet is placed on top. This enables the left thumb to aid in forming the break the instant the two packets are brought together. The right hand packet is placed on top with a sidling movement instead of straight down, which greatly facilitates the forming of the break, and also prevents the sound from indicating that a space is held. There is nothing difficult about the performance of these blinds. With a perfect understanding, they can be fairly well executed on the first attempt.

This method of blind cutting is particularly adapted for working in with the blind riffle. It appears to assist in mixing the cards, and inspires the most positive conviction of good faith in the performance. The following combination of the riffle and cut will illustrate the point:

