# One-Handed Fancy True Cut

A very pretty true cut is made in the following manner. Seize the deck at sides, close to end, so as to expose the whole deck, between the thumb and second and third finger tips of right hand, the fingers close together, but the second finger tip coming only half way down the side. Hook up the top portion with the second finger tip so that the corner will come out free of the third finger, thus dividing the deck in two. \(See Fig. 16.\) Then give the hand a slight swing or jerk downwards and inwards, releasing the upper portion with the second finger, allowing it to fall on the table. Then drop under portion on top. In seizing the deck, if it is slid to the table edge and tilted over slightly, the thumb and fingers take hold much easier, and are certain of raising all the cards. In making this cut the deck is held but a few inches from the table, and the action must be nicely made to have the cards fall flatly. The run cut can be made in the same way, dropping the packets one on the other. The action is the same when the cut is made by seizing the ends, but it is a little more difficult. No haste should be taken. The movements should be deliberate, so that the truth of the cut is apparent. The only advantage the cut possesses is its beauty, and a possible aid at times, by giving an excuse to square up with both hands. The run cut is liable to leave the cards uneven, and a left palm holdout can be replaced in this way. The only drawback is the danger in making a display of even such simple ability.

