# To Hold the Location of Cut while Dealing

The object of holding the location of the cut is so that a shift may be made at that point when the first deal has been completed. This will bring the original bottom cards to that position again, from which they may be dealt during the second deal, and the most opportune moment for the shift is immediately after the first deal, as the deck is deposited on the table.

When the cut is made, pick up the packet that was under, by the sides, near end, between second and third fingers and thumb of right hand, and lay it on top of packet cut-off, so that the then under packet forms a jog or protrudes about quarter of an inch toward the right wrist. Pick up the two packets the instant the one is placed on the other, by a sliding movement, with the fingers in the same position, and place the deck across the left palm with the left thumb on top to hold it in position. Then release sides of deck with right hand and seize ends to square up. In doing so the right thumb comes against the inner end and in contact with the jog or projecting under packet. Press this down a little with the thumb and square ends of deck, forming break at thumb end. Now shift the left hand slightly so as to hold the break with the tip of the left little finger at the side, close to the end, and begin the deal. \(See Fig. 48.\) The break is not more than an eighth of an inch wide, and is concealed by the left third finger. The action is very simple, yet should be carefully studied. The slight jog in the two packets as they are picked up is not noticeable, as the top packet overhangs at the outer end and the one most likely to show is hidden by the right hand. But in any case it would not matter much, as the action of squaring up after the deck is placed in the left palm appears genuine, and the break can be formed without a possibility of detection. The little finger can hold the break by pressing against the ball of the thumb without the least inconvenience while the deal progresses.

